Docs/ota 4466 garage sign usage (#1656)
advancedtelematic/aktualizr: docs/ota-client-guide/modules/ROOT/pages/garage-sign.adoc

> = garage-sign

Author: @tkfu do you have any suggestions on an alternative title?

ifdef::env-github[]

[NOTE]
====
We recommend that you link:https://docs.ota.here.com/ota-client/latest/{docname}.html[view this article in our documentation portal]. Not all of our articles render correctly in GitHub.
====
endif::[]

xref:https://github.com/advancedtelematic/ota-tuf/tree/master/cli[garage-sign] is a tool for managing your OTA Connect software repository and securely signing software versions. It allows you to directly change, sign, and upload your xref:uptane.adoc[Uptane] metadata.

.Why use `garage-sign`

> ****

Reviewer: The formatting here looks a bit strange to me. It definitely looks wrong on GitHub, although I know that doesn't really matter.

> `garage-sign` is useful in OTA Connect for managing the keys for signing your software. If your software image is not an OSTree image, you would need `garage-sign` to upload your xref:uptane.adoc[Uptane] metadata.

Reviewer: "you will need"?

Before using `garage-sign`, it is important to be familiar with the following two concepts.

* *Offline keys*
+

> In a production environment, we recommend that you keep the keys for signing software versions offline. Therefore, the OTA Connect server will no longer sign software for you, instead, they will be signed locally by your machine. This maintains the security of the software because if someone gained access to your OTA Connect account, they will be able to send malicious software to your devices. However, if your keys are offline, your devices will not recognize the software as it will not have the correct credentials. This is where `garage-sign` becomes useful. For non-OSTree images, the `garage-sign` tool is used to manage and rotate your keys offline as well as sign your software.

Reviewer: Some minor bits here, but most importantly: garage-sign also signs OSTree images. Is there something I'm missing about what you're trying to say, or can we just get rid of that specification? Here's my suggestion:
```suggestion
In a production environment, we recommend that you keep the keys for signing software versions offline. Therefore, the OTA Connect server will no longer sign software for you; instead, they will be signed locally by your machine. This maintains the security of the software because if someone gained access to your OTA Connect account, they will be able to send malicious software to your devices. However, if your keys are offline, your devices will not recognize the software as it will not have the correct credentials. This is where `garage-sign` becomes essential: it is necessary for managing and rotating your keys offline as well as signing your software.
```

Author: @patrickvacek applied your suggestion.

* *Local repository*
+

> A repository is a location for storing software packages. A local repository is a server that exists on your local machine such as your computer. When using the `garage-sign` tool, it is important to create a local repository on your machine that contains your credentials from OTA Connect, and your keys for signing metadata. With your keys existing locally on your machine, any changes you make to them will not directly affect your devices on OTA Connect. It also ensures the security of your keys during production.

Reviewer 2: This is completely wrong. An Uptane repository may store software packages, but the most important thing is the metadata, which are just a set of signed json files. There's no server involved.

A "local repository" is just a local copy of your metadata, plus a credentials file to connect to ota connect.

> A repository is a location for storing software packages. A local repository is a server that exists on your local machine such as your computer. When using the `garage-sign` tool, it is important to create a local repository on your machine that contains your credentials from OTA Connect, and your keys for signing metadata. With your keys existing locally on your machine, any changes you make to them will not directly affect your devices on OTA Connect. It also ensures the security of your keys during production.

Reviewer 3: A local repository is not a server, it is kind of a mirror of the metadata files that reposerver has about your software. It is kind of analogous to a git repository, when you do git pull you get a local repository. when you do garage-sign targets pull you get the remote targets.json into your computer. the same for root pull. This local repository is used by garage-sign to store these files and your private keys, as well as credentials so that garage-sign can use to authenticate with reposerver.

> A repository is a location for storing software packages. A local repository is a server that exists on your local machine such as your computer. When using the `garage-sign` tool, it is important to create a local repository on your machine that contains your credentials from OTA Connect, and your keys for signing metadata. With your keys existing locally on your machine, any changes you make to them will not directly affect your devices on OTA Connect. It also ensures the security of your keys during production.

Reviewer: This is confusing to me. The definition of a repository isn't wrong, but here we're talking about using a local repository for storing keys, not software packages, so the definition is over-specific. I also wouldn't exactly call a "local repository" a "server". I think you can do without that sentence. It's also not just "important", it's a requirement if you've rotated your keys offline.

This sentence is also confusing me: "With your keys existing locally on your machine, any changes you make to them will not directly affect your devices on OTA Connect." That's true, but if you sign new metadata with those keys and push that metadata, those local keys very much will affect devices in OTA Connect. I think this slightly misses the point of keeping your keys offline.

Author: @patrickvacek thanks for your suggestions. This paragraph has been revised.

> ****

Reviewer: What are these asterisks for?

Author: @patrickvacek they are part of an Asciidoc syntax to create a block where important information can be placed.

== Prerequisites of `garage-sign`

. Download the latest version of the `garage-sign` tool from link:https://tuf-cli-releases.ota.here.com/index.html[here].
. Unzip the file you have downloaded to a location on your computer.
. Change the directory of your terminal on the command line to that location.

> . Afterwards, open the `garage-sign` folder in your terminal. You can also print the help command to view the list of all possible commands with this tool.

Reviewer 2: > open the `garage-sign` folder in your terminal

This doesn't really make any sense at all.

Author: @tkfu this was a typo that I forgot to revise after adding the previous sentence.  Good catch.

> . Afterwards, open the `garage-sign` folder in your terminal. You can also print the help command to view the list of all possible commands with this tool.

Reviewer: Isn't this last step redundant with the previous? I don't know how to open the folder if I already `cd`'d to it.

Author: @patrickvacek good point. I'll remove the point about opening the folder.

+
[source,bash]
----
cd garage-sign/
bin/garage-sign --help
----

> For more information, please refer to the link:https://github.com/advancedtelematic/ota-tuf/tree/master/cli[`garage-sign` README file].

Reviewer 2: The whole damn point of this task is to improve on and replace that content. If you're linking to it for "more information", something has gone very wrong.

== Use of `garage-sign` with OTA Connect

To use the `garage-sign` tool with OTA Connect, you need to perform the following steps:

> . Initialize a new image repository locally on your computer that pulls your `credentials.zip` from OTA Connect.

Reviewer 2: Where did you get the idea that an image repository can pull credentials from OTA Connect?

Author: @tkfu my bad. I've revised this point.

+
[source, bash]
----
garage-sign init \
  --repo <reponame> \ <1>
  --credentials </path/to/credentials.zip> <2>
----
+

> <1> The name of your image repository which is to be initialized by the `init` command is provided here.

Reviewer 2: What useful information does this add?

Author: @tkfu good point. I'll remove it.

<2> Here you provide the path of your `credentials.zip` file downloaded from your account on the https://connect.ota.here.com[OTA Connect Portal].

. Ensure you have the latest `targets.json` file by pulling it from OTA Connect.
+
[source, bash]
----
garage-sign targets pull --repo <reponame>
----

> The above commands create a local repository in a directory called `/tuf/<reponame>`. This directory will contain your `credentials.zip` file and has a tree structure as shown below:

Reviewer: That leading slash might cause some confusion.
```suggestion
The above commands create a local repository in a directory called `tuf/<reponame>`. This directory will contain your `credentials.zip` file and has a tree structure as shown below:

```

Author: @patrickvacek good catch. Suggestion applied

In most use cases, more than one `garage-sign` command is used to perform a specific task. A few use cases will be discussed in this section, however the use of the `garage-sign` tool is not limited to these.

=== Generate new keys

You might generate new keys if you:

* xref:rotating-signing-keys.adoc#_rotate_the_online_keys_with_your_new_offline_keys[want to rotate your online keys with your new offline keys].
* believe your keys have been compromised.
* would like to revoke the current keys for signing metadata.

==== Workflow to generate new keys

When generating new keys for metadata, you perform the following steps:

. First, generate the new `root` and `targets` keys by running the command `garage-sign key generate` twice.
+
[source,bash]
----
garage-sign key generate \
  --repo <reponame> \
  --name myroot \ <1>
  --type <ed25519|rsa> <2>
garage-sign key generate \
  --repo <reponame> \
  --name mytargets \
  --type <ed25519|rsa>
----
+
<1> You can give any name to the keys you generate, which helps to easily identify between the new `root` and `targets` keys. Here, the keys generated are given the names `myroot` and `mytargets`.

> <2> The key type must be specified as either Ed25519 or RSA. In OTA Connect, an RSA key is used for signing uptane metadata.

Reviewer 2: Why can I specify ed25519 here, if I can only use RSA?

Author: @tkfu good point. The help specified both that's why I wrote both within the syntax, but since only RSA is used for OTA I'll remove the option for ed25519.

Reviewer: AFAIK ed25119 is supposed to work. However, I think @kbushgit said it did not the last time he tried. Can someone confirm if it does work? @simao perhaps?

> <2> The key type must be specified as either Ed25519 or RSA. In OTA Connect, an RSA key is used for signing uptane metadata.

Reviewer: I don't understand this: "In OTA Connect, an RSA key is used for signing uptane metadata." Do you mean that's the default? Otherwise it sounds like this directly contradicts that you have a choice.

Also, "Uptane" should be capitalized.

. Afterwards, pull the latest `targets.json` file from OTA Connect with the command `garage-sign targets pull`.
+
[source,bash]
----
garage-sign targets pull --repo <reponame>
----

> . Next, use the command `garage-sign move-offline`. This command deletes the old `root` key from OTA Connect, downloads and signs the new `root` key with the newly generated keys, and pushes the new `root.json` file to OTA Connect.

Reviewer 2: You said that this section was about generating new keys, and gave "moving the keys offline" as an example of why you might generate new keys. Now you're saying you have to run the `move-offline` command as part of generating new keys. Are you sure that's right?

Author: @tkfu I see your point. In that case, only the first point to generate the keys is relevant here.

+
[source,bash]
----
garage-sign move-offline \
  --repo <reponame> \
  --old-root-alias originroot \ <1>
  --new-root myroot \ <2>
  --new-targets mytargets <3>
----
+

> <1> This is an example of an alias given to the old `root` key. It gets saved with this name.

Reviewer 2: What does this actually mean? What's an "alias" in this context?

Look, this is one example of a problematic pattern in a lot of your writing. If you are going to spend words on explaining something, make sure it's actually adding new information. If you find that you've written something that just repeats information that's already there without adding any additional explanation or insight, delete it. Text that doesn't add anything isn't just neutral, it's actively bad.

<2> This is an example of the name given to your new `root` key which you previously generated using the command `garage-sign key generate`.

> <3> This is an example of the name given to your new `targets` key which you previously generated using the command `garage-sign key generate`.

Reviewer: I like the idea of annotating these commands, since they are complex. However, I'm concerned that it makes copy-pasting the commands less user-friendly. (Or does Antora handle that more nicely than GitHub's rendering?)

. As a final step, sign the new `targets.json` with your newly generated `targets` key and upload it to OTA Connect.
+
[source,bash]
----
garage-sign targets sign --repo <reponame> --key-name mytargets
garage-sign targets push --repo <reponame>
----

> Please refer to xref:rotating-signing-keys.adoc#_rotate_the_keys_for_root_and_targets_metadata[rotating the keys for `root` and `targets` metadata] for additional information on generating new keys.

Reviewer 2: It looks like this whole section is just recapping information from that other page, but it's not using includes and it's less clear. This needs to be better.

Author: @tkfu I've removed the points after the keys are generated because they repeat the same information and are not relevant under the point of generating new keys.

=== Add a new software version

> `garage-sign` can also be used to add software packages to your repository with the command `garage-sign targets add`. The packages are downloaded by aktualizr, however `garage-sign` doesn't upload the software file. The `garage-sign targets add` commmand puts new metadata in place, hence you need to tell aktualizr where the software package can be found. This is done by uploading the file somewhere else and providing `garage-sign` with the URL of where it's available.

Reviewer 2: This is all over the place. You use "software packages" and "software file" without any clear idea of what the difference is, and you don't use the actual term we use in OTA Connect. Please go back to the drawing board.

> `garage-sign` can also be used to add software packages to your repository with the command `garage-sign targets add`. The packages are downloaded by aktualizr, however `garage-sign` doesn't upload the software file. The `garage-sign targets add` commmand puts new metadata in place, hence you need to tell aktualizr where the software package can be found. This is done by uploading the file somewhere else and providing `garage-sign` with the URL of where it's available.

Reviewer: This is confusing, since a few paragraphs down, we actually say that you *can* use garage-sign to upload binary images: "however `garage-sign` doesn't upload the software file."

To add a software version, perform the following steps:

> . First upload the software package you wish to add via a URL.

Reviewer: "via a URL" sounds a bit odd to me. How is this:
```suggestion
. First upload the software package you wish to add to a URL of your choice.

```

. Next, give the URL where the software was uploaded to the command `garage-sign targets add`. This tells aktualizr where it should download the software file.
+
[source,bash]
----
garage-sign targets add \
  --repo <reponame> \
  --format <target-format> \ <1>
  --length <length-of-package> \ <2>
  --name <packagename> \ <3>
  --version <version> \ <4>
  --sha256 <sha256sum> \ <5>
  --hardwareids <hardware-id1> \ <6>
  --url <url-of-software> <7>
----
+

> <1> You must specify the format of the target image to be added--either as an ostree or binary image. In OTA Connect, the `garage-sign` tool is often used to upload `binary` images.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> You must specify the format of the target image to be added--either as an OSTree or binary image. In OTA Connect, the `garage-sign` tool is often used to upload `binary` images.

```

<2> The length of the image to be added must be specified in bytes.
<3> The name of the image you want to upload is specified here.
<4> You must also specify the version number of the target image.
<5> The sha256 hash of the software image is specified here.
<6> This refers to the ids of hardware that your image file supports. An example can be seen in the `targets.json` file xref:customise-targets-metadata.adoc#_anatomy_of_targets_json_metadata[here] under the `custom` field.
<7> The URL of the software package is specified here for `garage-sign` so that aktualizr will know where to find the software file to download.

. Afterwards, sign your `targets.json`, which now contains your new software package, with your `targets` key and upload it to OTA Connect.
+
[source,bash]
----
garage-sign targets sign --repo <reponame> --key-name mytargets
garage-sign targets push --repo <reponame>
----

=== Define metadata expiry

> You can also define an expiry date for your metadata using `garage-sign` on the command line. You can do this in two ways--either specifying a fixed date and time or a specific period of time. However, only one type of expiry argument must be used to define the metadata expiry date.

Reviewer 2: I don't think this is good judgement about what to include up front in the introductory paragraph. If you're going to write an introductory paragraph, it should explain the topic. Instead, you've spent two sentences explaining a minor detail about how the user can specify expiry times, and you've done it before the documentation of the tool itself.

include::ota-client::page$metadata-expiry.adoc[tags=metadata-expiry]

=== Upload a large binary file

The `garage-sign` tool can also be used to upload large binary files up to 3 GB. To upload a large binary file to OTA Connect, perform the following steps:

. Ensure you have the latest version of the `targets.json` file from OTA Connect by pulling the latest version to your local repository.
+
[source,bash]
----
garage-sign targets pull \
  --repo <reponame> <1>
----

. Next, upload the large binary file you want with the command below. This uploads the binary file directly to https://tuf-cli-releases.ota.here.com/index.html[garage-sign on the s3 reposerver].

> +

Author: @xaviergully yes that's the correct link

> +

Reviewer 2: No, that's absolutely not correct. There is no such thing as an "s3 reposerver". The storage of the binaries does have s3 as a backing store, but that's not exposed to the user at all.

> +

Author: @tkfu, in that case, should this link be removed as it is not exposed to users?

> +

Reviewer 2: Let's take this offline.
